So now that the user photo upload feature
is completed, let's now learn how to upload multiple files
at the same time and also how
to process multiple images at the same time.
And so in this lecture and the next one,
we're going to be uploading and processing tour pictures.
And to start let's actually remember what kind
of images we want for our tours and also how many,
and so we should take a look at our tour model here.
And so here we have the image cover
and that is actually only one image
and then also we have the image field
which is going to be an array of images.
And typically these should be at least three images
because that is the amount of images that we have
in the tour detail page.
Right?
So again, we're going to have image cover
and images as an array.
All right.
Now the way we're going to upload
and process these images is going to be very similar
to what we did with the users,
and so let's actually go ahead into the user controller
and copy at least this initial part here
of the multer configuration.
All right, so grab that and then
in the tour controller, right here at the top,
lets put it right here and also
lets also get the multer and sharp requiring.
All right, great.
And so just like before we will store
the images in memory, all right,
and also we only allow images to pass our filter.
So in other words we only want to be able to upload images.
All right.
Then here we create or upload in
the exact same way as before,
and so now lets actually create
the middleware out of this upload.
All right.
So export dot upload tour, images, then upload.
And now here comes the different part,
so something that's going to be different
to what we did here in the users controller
because we had upload dot single.
Okay.
And so that was because we only had one single field
with a file that we wanted to upload
and so that here is the name of that field.
Right?
But now we actually have multiple files
and in one of them we have one image
and in the other one we have three images.
So, how can we do that?
Well, we're going to use upload dot fields,
and so multer is actually perfectly capable
of handling this kind of situations.
So here we pass in an array and each
of the elements is an object where we
then specify the field name.
And so the first one, remember,
is image cover, and then we say that the max count is one.
And so that means that we can only have
one field called image cover,
which is then going to be processed.
All right, and then let's do the same for our images,
so that is the other field in our database
and so here we call it images as well
and here lets say that the max count is three.
All right.
And in case that we didn't have the image cover
and if that only had one field which accepts multiple images
or multiple files at the same time,
we could have done it like this.
So we would then use upload dot array, okay?
And then the name of the field,
and then basically the max count here as a number like this.
All right?
So when there's one only, then it's upload dot single,
let's say image, when there is multiple with the same name,
then it's upload dot array and when there's basically
a mix of them, then it is upload dot fields.
Okay?
Now maybe this looks a bit complicated now,
so lets before we move on actually replicate
this kind of query in Postman, okay?
And actually before we do that,
we need to create a new tour.
All right, and actually I will do that here
in compass simply by duplicating one of
the tours that we already have.
So lets say here, the Sea Explorer,
and now I'm duplicating it.
And so here I can change what I want to have different
and this one is called The Mountain Biker,
let's say duration of five, max group size of ten,
and then what really matters is to get rid of
the image cover because that's what we want to update later
and also the images array.
Created at can also go and of course
we need to change the slug, so the mountain biker.
Okay?
And by the way we needed to create
a new tour like this so that we actually have the locations,
the summary and description, and all that stuff,
so that the tourist can correctly render in our website.
All right, so lets insert it and so
it should be somewhere here right at the end, okay.
So let's grab the ID here and now here in Postman
lets then update tour.
So we pass that in here and now in our body,
lets remember that we need to change from raw to form data.
Okay?
Let's close all of these here and also lets login here
as an admin because otherwise updating
the tour is not going to be working.
So admin@nators.io, all right.
And so now let's just recreate a body request here
similar to we just specified here.
So basically similar to what our multer upload expects,
so one image cover and three images.
So, image cover, which is a file, and so lets select that.
And so here we have these new photos for tours
and lets actually use this first one here
as the cover image and then images,
lets put that here to file as well,
and then here the other three.
And now as you see, all of them will be called images.
Okay, and we can only have a maximum of three,
at least only three of them are going
to be processed by multer, all right?
And actually here you see that we really need
to resize this one because on our website
all of them appear in this landscape format
and not portrait like we have it here.
All right?
And so that's of course why it's necessary
to also process these images, all right?
And of course we can also change other stuff here,
so lets say we want to change the price to 9-9-7, okay?
Now, I'm not going to send this request just yet
because we don't have any logic implemented
to handle it at this point, right,
because we're not really uploading it
to the file system, but only saving it to memory.
And so just to quickly take a look at them
lets actually create our next middleware here,
which is going to be the one to process these images.
So export dot resize tour images, so request, response,
and next, and now lets here log them to the console.
All right, and in case we have multiple files
it is actually on request dot files, and not just file.
All right?
So this here basically will produce request dot file
while the fields and the array
will both produce request dot files, so the plural.
All right, so then log this to the console
and then also lets call next here so that
we can actually then later finish
the request-response cycle, okay.
Give it a save and now all we need
to do in order to actually test the request is
to add these two new middlewares to the route handler.
All right, so tour routes and just like with the users,
to keep it simple here, we will only allow
uploading images on a tour update.
So down here is where we have that patch request, all right,
and so we already have a bunch of middlewares,
so protect, restrict to admins and guides,
and now lets also add tour controller dot upload tour images
and tour controller dot resize tour images.
So that's a really nice middleware stack right here, okay?
And so I think that now we're ready to actually test
the request that we created here.
And again of course it's not really going to do anything,
it's not going to be saving these images anywhere
and also not updating the database
but for now we just want to see the result in the console.
Well it should have actually updated the price
so lets quickly take a look at that.
Yeah, so the price now updated but again
the images obviously did not, all right?
And now here we have them in the console,
so lets make that a little bit bigger
and so here we have the image cover where
we got the field name, the original name,
and also the mimetype, okay, then you see the buffer here,
and so this is basically a representation of
the image in memory.
Now it's important here to note
is that actually even the image cover is an array, okay?
So when we're going to retrieve
the image from image cover we then will have
to use the first element of this array.
And then in the images, here it's obvious
that we have an array and here for each of
the images we then have an object like this.
So with the original name, tour four, three and two,
and then each of them as a buffer.
All right, so everything is nicely connected
and so all we now need to do is to basically create
this resize tour images, because this is where
the images will then be processed
and also saved to disk.
Okay, and so that is the topic of the next lecture.